- [Instructor] GitLab Runner is the workhorse
of GitLab's approach to continuous integration.
When code changes enter your repository,
the runner executes jobs that help build our software
and then notifies GitLab of the results.
This interplay between GitLab's core and the runner
is the foundation of the CI/CD strategy we'll be using.
Before we start, though, we need to make sure
some pre-requisite software has been installed.
The application we'll be working with for CI/CD
and GitLab is actually a Java application
that's built using Maven.
We need to make sure that Java 8
and Maven are installed on your system before proceeding.
We're not gonna walk through that in this course
because there's many guides out there
for installing these technologies on your system.
Once you've installed the pre-requisite software,
I recommend consulting the GitLab Runner documentation.
You'll find the installation procedures
for the different operating systems
on the documentations webpage.
In our case, we're going to be working on Linux,
so let's consult the instructions and here's why.
These instructions can change often.
If they change that URL, the instructions I provide you
are not going to be fresh,
so always consult the documentation
when you're looking for these installation instructions
on GitLab Runner.
So we're going to be working on the Linux distribution
and I want this middle installation
because I'm running on Linux X86.
So I'm just going to go ahead and copy that command
which is using wget and then head over to a terminal.
Okay, so we can now paste the command from the website
and this will pull down the GitLab Runner binaries
for installation.
So there we see the package being downloaded
and once the download completes,
we can then begin to open up the permissions
on the directory that we've pulled the files down to.
So I'm going to use the change mod command
and we're going to open up that directory
which was /usr/local/bin/gitlab-runner,
and now that that directory's opened up
what we'll do is we will create a new user,
so we're going to use the useradd command
as an administrator and we're going to build a home
for this user that's going to be named gitlab-runner
and then we're going to send this
over to the shell and bash.
Okay, so we created the new user
and then at this point we're going to create a service
to run GitLab Runner.
So we use the sudo command and then we use gitlab-runner
and we perform an install
and we're going to set the service up
to be ran with the GitLab Runner user
and then we can specify a working directory
for the service of /home/gitlab-runner
and then at this point, all we need to do
is use the GitLab Runner to start the service.
Okay, so now GitLab Runner is installed on the machine
as a service and we can use it to perform jobs
with our builds as part of GitLab's CI strategy.